ladooo it's me, Hemag Yamar Hello friends welcome back to my youtube channel Basics of ServiceNow Learning so in this video is the first video of service.training session or i can say service training hematomaal each and every topic that we will cover nation in the syllabus i can say s3 is er wi si So, we talk about all this topics one by one In todays videos In today's video, I will cover the introduction to ServiceNow users and groups and administration, so the 1st part is basically the theoretical and the second part is basically emplementation using service line instructions how to create user how to create groups how to create roles right, so let see what we will be covering in this video, in this video i will be giving you a brief service now basically the service line introduction , we will talk about users, we will talk about roles, we will talk about groups and We will also implement a use users. Theyustom rolls are to create growth in service. Now how the same goals to use that directly how. Closer to grow to add user to grow Okay. If we adding a lower right so we have to move the role as, right. So move more from the users and how to move roles from the compose Okay. So these all you sources we are going to cover in today's video. Okay So let's start with for service now introduction so that that is basically a theoretical part so Servicenow is basically a product of Servicenotain, which is an American cloud based It management company. It was founded in 2004 by Fred. And it's headquarters is in Santa Clara, California. So ServiceNow is a cloud based IP management tool. So which is used to automate business processes and provides best service to customers and encourages best practices in managing all services of a business. ServiceNow was first introduced into ITSM tool used for various IPM such as assets management in a change management problem management management knowledge management etc. Okay, so basically these incident management, change management, asset management, problem management these are basically IP hosting applications okay. These are the very basics applications of the default applications which is given by a ServiceNow, and most of the companies are working on incident management and change management. I believe. okay, so these are the very basics modules incident management and change management, so but now ServiceNow becomes a huge and serves a lot of other applications as well, such you IPO applications in IBM applications okay so as we move forward with other sections of this training sessions then we will also cover the I27 applications and antibiotics you still what all that reminds them and one of the applications they should not have we will also talk about our ideas for applications in the case that what is exactly the envie process is what exactly the change management process is okay problem and I mean process and on services. trov u сегодняọi in Jan Free promet to get? Just know JavaScript or not. Okay so let's see so this is basically a very brief introduction of service. Now most of the time people ask what is service. Now certainly you should be aware what is service what exactly is the tool is. This tool is basically for ISSM and SSL applications, cloud based ID management. Okay so here now let's see what is users? Okay Now, even application, whether this a sock peer, web application, any application it is nothing without User in ServiceNow, user is basically those individuals who can access ServiceNow instance and it create users in ServiceNow user admin and ITIL role is required so let's navigate to ServiceNow application so that we can go there how we can create users create that in creta users so friends. this is my service now in... and what is a personal development instance so I will tell you that this is basically which is provided by ServiceNow and free of cost you can create your access and you can create your instance directly so I have already posted a video you can check it in my playlist okay so you can give your personal development but once you create that you have an admin access of your instance c ok and then you can perform the activities which which I'm going to perform okay as you can always to explore that things of ServiceNow when instance So we are talking about users so before we start with users I will give you a little brief on this application first see whenever we are looking here in the left hand side application things these are the applications which are provided by service now by default is service this personal development instance okay the lots of application see. okay. See I was talking about change earlier, right change problem incidenting you have access here. You can access those applications you can do hands on. If you want you want to become incident management manager or you want to become a problem manager or change manager okay you can do hands on over here okay.We have different applications here even eventhough we have a developing application also here So if you want to do development in service now now you need admin access from where you can access that call and english applications That's system definition There are lots of other applications as well So these are the applications which are provided by the service now here they are Modules means like all ready, cuz everything you do, it actually the whole industry will be talking to you, and they'll attend to you in this case. I will talk to you in this case. So, once that's done you just want to go into admin operations and do anything that you can do. And inside the admin apps, you can see theволe, and I'm just gonna try to use with this example, how does the differences work, we are using, right? Like notifications, if you want to create some personalized notifications or remove some notifications, then you can use it from here. Forms, list, teams, journals. Okay? And this is basically a search, we can say global searches. You can search anything from here. Okay, whatever data is there, will be displayed to you, okay? So, okay. So this is basically a service and application, so when we move forward with tutorials or different training sessions then you will be come to know more about it and everything So now let move to user part first so to create a user or to find out from where to create a user, Tap User in this filter navigator once you tap user It gives us a filtered result scroll down, under user administration we have modules called users, groups and rules ok...so we are going to cover the user groups and nodes ok so what i am going to do i am going to open the user in a new tab see we have 590 uses in this system right now and we are going to create users today so from here this icon is basically for personalizing a list for telling what all columns you want to display like this is a selected columns Add more column. Now Overall lamp look like this of the list the first name of the listing over here So it means. particular gray icon is used to customize what you want to see What you want to remove from here OK Basically..... for iteration what all records you can create your own query over here Let's say i I am saying that.... means the user is active but it won't work ok So it will display me all the users see so it will filter the results basically it will filter the results as well as ITL OK so these two functionality you will get every listView in Service now so let's come back to users OK I am going to create a new user click on the New button once you click on the new button see we have a form available so we have to fill this form as I told to you earlier that to create a user a person need at role or a user underscore admin for admin, right? To create a User. So User ID is basically a login ID, so I'm saying I'm giving a demo someone saying demo user. Okay, the first name is, last name is Dimo. Okay, the name, you can give any name. Okay, if you want to give this is not mandatory. So I'm not giving it, see, this is mandatory. And this is not Massageroom Department, i am saying password password need to be reset, if i changed it the person login the system he needs to reset the password this Logged out okay if a user enter more than 3 times a password then the system gets locked out he had to reset the password and then he can log into the system active basically means he is active user if i unchecked this it means that he is not active so he is no more in the organisation so basically when the person gave an interview for system administration and the interviewer asked him what is the difference between a locked out and an inactive so person has to explain that locked out user is basically the user who is active in the system but anyhow he cannot system okay and inactive means the person is no more in the organization ok here we have webservice access only if we are doing some integration or something and we don't want to give a interfere access only we have web service then we can use this check boxes okay email id of a user, i am using demo user accordig for file the manager if you want to give a manager of a person then you can give the name language Ok Calendar integration Time-zone Ok that you can select accordingly even the business phone mobile phone Ok Now and just saving it Once I Click on Save See Data get saved Add more related list and related link get introduced Ok Subscription reset our password See Roles Groups Delegate Scale Subscription Manager So here Is role So if we want to give a role Group is not mentioned in user browser 括국쉬 App could be any kind crippled Moggle exo no login yet which login I am logging to this instance to this user. Okay? So here the password was 123 and clicking on login see login sorry This person now have access of our Service Now Instance Okay? see but the application which is Available for him is only Sell Service Password is set connect line feed Sell Service basically its like a employer cell service through which he can create a request okay through which he can work on knowledge or he can create the questions or something and there are some other like incident to create an incident okay so he can create records like request, incident, knowledge for himself only okay he can not work for others through this access okay so here the person does not have any role so he is the ESS user Unique seven within one. Now you are a user, let's might talk about role. Say user administration role or tap the role but you can style it with roles to stick to the desired roles. So a role is basically to specify that what different users and user groups can see and do in ServiceNow Instance, okay? So from here we can create a new role. So in ServiceNow, there are different types of roles, such as like a Base System roles, Special Administrators roles, Custom roles, and Read-Only roles. So Base System roles is a role which is by default provided by ServiceNow. Okay, and the Custom roles are the roles which we are going to create now. Some system administrator role are basically a base system role, but it is kind of an admin role. As a business role, I will discuss admin like client script, and these are basically system administrator roles. This provides the access to a user to work on a client scripts to work on business rules. Another redundant role like CNC only if provided to a user if you want. He can only read the things These are basically four categorization of roles here it is a custom roles To create a role, click on new You can choose a role NAME I am saying Windows foe The best way is to use u underscore so that you can identify at what is the customer, what is the base role. So the best people do whenever you are giving a role give this u underscore. By this if you are working with some different company then they must be having some specific format to, prohibit that what is that customer role. Okay, underspecified. Okay, application global application is basically that what are access what our application must be headed this role. this is elevated privilege role this is basically role which is given to a person for a particular time so if I check this check by default its elevated privilege role which admin can give to any person for any specific time such as security and responsibilities its a elevated privilege role and the security admin friday to our life for 45 mins to 30 mins So, that he can perform his task after that role will automatically removed ok I am not creating elevated privileged role Im saying description demo ok I am clicking on save save Just a second Once I SAVED it... see... A related list has appeared which contains ROLES APPS other than these ROLE TABLES so once we assign these roles to any user then that users name is displayed over here once we assign this custom ROLES to any users by pro searching then this roles display empty If you want more roles accessed then we can add more roles in this ROLE lets say we have created a ROLE A We want that role BCDE will be in this A role, then we will create this role from here by new and edit button and when we will give this role to particular person then automatically accurately that role will also get assign to that particular person. Okay this role set will become a parent and the other role will become a child and this role will be assign automatically to that user. Application with the role when we create IVCL when we create the applications we decide the kind of person must have those who can exit that application then that will be useful then that application will be distributed over there okay So let on in a upcoming videos we will be covering these things when we are creating ICS when we are creating application okay then Given a demo that how that particular things will be getting distributed over there okay So for now we will only talk about user and groups okay When I assign this role to user then user will be distributed over here Once I assign this role to group, and group will discipline it over here, okay? So, this is role, this is user. So, through this, we have... we come to know that how to create a user, how to create a role. Now, let's talk about groups. So, we type groups, see, under system history session, same, we have our groups, and we open this group in a new tab. So, take a look See here is the list of groups We already talked about 40 groups so If I talk about the Groups The Group is basically a set of users who share the common Purpose Let's say Service Guest Group Ok For example we are creating Instant Ticket The Instant Ticket will automatically Assign to Service Guest Group The Task Management group which Ever been Chain Management A choice management group page and enter. This is the person who is taking care of this group He is the manager of this group In case there is some amount paid to the group for a early rate or something you can give the values over here Group email id in case you have Let's say demo group demo.com Add return of any group in case you have then also you can give the current group i am not giving as the current description and save so here once i save see we have also a listed as listed as norm Okay if we have assigned any rule to this group then we have a new rule if we assign any no to this group we have a new rule If i we're creating any group to this group we can create a group from here as well if you want to mention subscribers for this group, we can also mention through this place from here, okay? So now we have created a user, we have created role, we have created a group, even though we have logged into the user who does not have any roll now. So now as well as the use case, we have added aside the user, we have cut our current role, be catered to... Now we have to sustain the role to the user directly, okay? So, as I told you that we see the user, if I want to assaign a role to this user directly, and what I will do, I will create in this role. I think on edit. I will assign him a role which name is ITIL. ITIL is the very basic role which is assign to a user. If you want that GNU person can work on Instant, person can work on a Change ticket, person can work on the other modules' as well. ITIL role is best for them, because ITIL is basically outcome of works technician role, I can say default and provided by ServiceNow it's basically a base system role ITI. so I am selecting ITI over here. so I'm witting a role to this user, see and then clicking to save.. once I click Save, these roles are sent to this user, so here this ITI is indicted as false, inherited and other roles are true means this ITI role contains all these roles. okay these all all roles are inherited by ITI now user has launched let see if he is having access to just one or more that means worker editor and the password is 123. log in see on a page loads and see now he is having access of more applications now he is having access of like benefit management the dresses a problem the management he is having access of change management okay so this way role works that basically depends on won't know, that what all access they want to give to a user, what all tasks we want the user can perform so, we can故 decided by giving roles, okay? So in this way, we can give a role to a user, individual user. Okay but basically, giving a role to a user directly is not a good practice. A good practice is basically, they assign a role to a group and then I land that user to that group. Okay, we will also do this in this video. So ok, so now here see, if i refresh this page, Add Group page. so lets see how to assign a role to a group click on edit you can directly assign role from here so I'm giving this role to this group click on save once I click on save see under related list we have a role, you was the cuteness lets refresh this role page now you can see this role is assign to which group this way you can assign the creating line to group Now, if we align the user to this group, then what will happen? See demo first user, which I have created earlier. So what I'm going to do, I'm adding this user to this group. So to add the user navigate to group members, click on add it and you can select the user from there I'll set demo user and then you have to час reload See, when I click on save, group member, first memo. User name is displayed under group member. Role is getting displayed over here. Now, let's see, I'm refreshing this role. Then it will give us a user name as well. Once I refresh this, see, user name also popular to Overhead because we have given this role to a particular user to the group. That is my point. So now user is also getting displayed, group will also get displayed. Now this user must also have in this Role. i am refreshing this rule Where is the role? See SMquery다가 It is at a distance so in this way The best practice is that That whenever we have to assign a role to a user What we will do we will add a user to that group the group which is having that role so this group is having this role We add this user to this group Automatically the rules are sent to a user so in this way we can add user to a group now let�s see how we can remove roles from user how we can remove role from group removing is same if you want to remove a role from a group navigate to roles Click on edit Select the role which you want to remove full time work, move it back. Now just click on blank click on save see, role is removed now We are having a group member but does not have any role now. If I referench this role page now, see user is removed, group is removed because, if group does not have any role that means, user does not have any role see? So this way, we can move the role as well, and the same way, we can also move take the role from user, click on add it select the role go back ok so in this way we can assign roles we can remove roles we can create user we can create roles we can create groups okay if we are creating a user that user will get BEN END these are precisely the three tables where users, roles and groups, whatever we are creating in my system getting is SAVED. ok friends so friends this is all for this video so I hope this video helps you to understand that how we can create users, roles and groups and how we can assign roles to user ok friends so soon I will be posting a next video of this Service Node Training session ok so this is all for this service node training session village by clicking on that subscribe tab. bell icon so that you can receive a notification that what all videos I'm going to post in future. thank you friends have a nice day... Bye Bye